# Cookie Policy for Corso

This is the Cookie Policy for Corso, accessible from
https://corsobackup.io

## What Are Cookies

As is common practice with almost all professional websites this site
uses cookies, which are tiny files that are downloaded to your
computer, to improve your experience. This page describes what
information they gather, how we use it and why we sometimes need to
store these cookies. We will also share how you can prevent these
cookies from being stored however this may downgrade or 'break'
certain elements of the sites functionality.

## How We Use Cookies

We use cookies for a variety of reasons detailed below. Unfortunately
in most cases there are no industry standard options for disabling
cookies without completely disabling the functionality and features
they add to this site. It is recommended that you leave on all cookies
if you are not sure whether you need them or not in case they are used
to provide a service that you use.

## Disabling Cookies

You can prevent the setting of cookies by adjusting the settings on
your browser (see your browser Help for how to do this). Be aware that
disabling cookies will affect the functionality of this and many other
websites that you visit. Disabling cookies will usually result in also
disabling certain functionality and features of the this
site. Therefore it is recommended that you do not disable
cookies. This Cookies Policy was created with the help of the [Cookies
Policy
Generator](https://www.cookiepolicygenerator.com/cookie-policy-generator/).

## The Cookies We Set

* Email newsletters related cookies
    
    This site offers newsletter or email subscription services and
    cookies may be used to remember if you are already registered and
    whether to show certain notifications which might only be valid to
    subscribed/unsubscribed users.
    
* Surveys related cookies
    
    From time to time we offer user surveys and questionnaires to
    provide you with interesting insights, helpful tools, or to
    understand our user base more accurately. These surveys may use
    cookies to remember who has already taken part in a survey or to
    provide you with accurate results after you change pages.
    
* Forms related cookies
    
    When you submit data to through a form such as those found on
    contact pages or comment forms cookies may be set to remember your
    user details for future correspondence.
    
* Site preferences cookies
    
    In order to provide you with a great experience on this site we
    provide the functionality to set your preferences for how this
    site runs when you use it. In order to remember your preferences
    we need to set cookies so that this information can be called
    whenever you interact with a page is affected by your preferences.
    

## Third Party Cookies

In some special cases we also use cookies provided by trusted third
parties. The following section details which third party cookies you
might encounter through this site.

* This site uses Google Analytics which is one of the most widespread
    and trusted analytics solution on the web for helping us to
    understand how you use the site and ways that we can improve your
    experience. These cookies may track things such as how long you
    spend on the site and the pages that you visit so we can continue
    to produce engaging content.
    
    For more information on Google Analytics cookies, see the official
    Google Analytics page.
    
* Third party analytics are used to track and measure usage of this
    site so that we can continue to produce engaging content. These
    cookies may track things such as how long you spend on the site or
    pages you visit which helps us to understand how we can improve
    the site for you.
    
* From time to time we test new features and make subtle changes to
    the way that the site is delivered. When we are still testing new
    features these cookies may be used to ensure that you receive a
    consistent experience whilst on the site whilst ensuring we
    understand which optimisations our users appreciate the most.
    

## More Information

Hopefully that has clarified things for you and as was previously
mentioned if there is something that you aren't sure whether you need
or not it's usually safer to leave cookies enabled in case it does
interact with one of the features you use on our site.

For more general information on cookies, please read [the Cookies
Policy
article](https://www.cookiepolicygenerator.com/sample-cookies-policy/).

However if you are still looking for more information then you can
contact us through one of our preferred contact methods:

* Email: info@corsobackup.io